Today we're going to talk about
practical drawing for iOS developers.
So in my role at Apple,
what I spend a lot of time doing
is talking to developers about
how they can make better apps,
stronger apps, faster apps.
And one of the things
I often say to them is,
"Hey, why don't you try drawing
that with Core Graphics?
I think you could do better.
Your app might be faster,
might be smaller, and so forth." And the
reaction I often get is,
"Are you kidding?
Can I draw that with Quartz?
What are you talking about?" And so
what I want to do over the next 60
minutes is talk to you about how
at Apple we use Core Graphics to
draw pieces of our applications,
to make them beautiful.
So the first one I wanted to
talk about is the Stocks app.
I'm not sure how many of you have
taken your Stocks app when you
have the graph showing on the
bottom and turned it sideways and
seen this interactive graphic.
But this is fantastic.
There's no way that we could ship all
of the possible images that would fit in
there for every possible closing price.
So we have to draw that at runtime.
We use dynamic data that we
download off the internet,
and then we draw it with Core Graphics.
Another one is weather.
So the images like the sun that's got a
little bit of cloud on it and so forth,
those images are pre-rendered.
But we draw those into this beautiful
looking table view at runtime.
The next one is numbers.
Of course you can put data
yourself into numbers.
Hopefully your weight loss
progress looks like that.
Mine often looks the other way.
But users type this data in,
so we can't draw this beforehand,
we have to draw it at runtime.
Next is in a lot of our table view
cells to make them really fast,
like the YouTube application
here on iPad,
we draw that with Quartz.
Next, this is one of my favorite pages,
has this beautiful rendered
ruler at the top of every page.
Now if you look closely you'll
notice in portrait and landscape
we have a different ruler there.
One is demarked in eighth inch increments
and the other one in sixteenth inch.
Now of course we could have put
two different pings in there and we
could ship with both of those pings
and then just switch between them.
But it makes the application smaller
to draw that again with Quartz.
Next up is iBooks.
I love this application.
There's so many cool things
available and it's just so beautiful.
I don't know how many of you ever looked.
I tried to get a screenshot of this,
but if you tap on your bookshelf
here and you pull down,
there's a nice embossed
Apple logo in the background.
It's just beautiful.
All this fit and finish and
this background and all the
things you see on the screen
are of course drawn with Quartz.
And then next is GarageBand.
I love this app.
I don't know if you've
played with this feature,
but there's a whole bunch of
samples built in that you can play.
My kids bark into the microphone
and then play themselves
barking back at each other.
It's a fantastic app.
But the sound graph that you see
on the top right hand side there,
that's drawn again with Core Graphics.
So let's look at the agenda of
what we're going to do today.
What I wanted to do was take you
through how to draw something
that looks very similar to this.
Last year we did a talk and one of
the engineers at that talk went to
the labs and he was inundated with
questions about how this got drawn.
Someone told that he drew this himself,
that he wrote the code.
So people just mobbed him.
So I thought this year what we do is
walk through drawing something like that.
To see how it's drawn though,
let's break it down
into individual layers.
So first of all we start
with the gradient background.
Now of course we can't have square edges,
everything has to be rounded
and safe for children,
right?
So we want to round the edges off.
We'll talk about how to build
clip pads that look like that.
We also want to draw a data grid.
Now on the bottom is where
we'll draw the volume data,
how many shares traded
hands in a particular day.
And on the top part of that is where
we will draw the closing data that's
got the waves in it and so forth.
On the bottom we have room to put text,
and on the right we have room
to put labels for these lines.
So the clipped horizontal
lines show how much,
what the value of the stock
was on any given closing day.
And then also to really make it stand out
we draw this line pattern underneath it.
underneath it.
Finally,
we draw the closing data over the top
of those two clipped groups of shapes,
and then the volume
data down at the bottom.
and also the text labels at the bottom,
we're going to draw those
and I don't know how well it
shows up on the screen here,
but there's a nice shadow behind those.
So we'll look at how to do that as well.
So simple stocks.
That's what we're going to go
through in the next 60 minutes.
And when you leave here,
you're going to know how to do
everything that you see in this graphic.
So let's get started by just
looking at a couple of simple
examples of how drawing gets done.
So again,
I spend a lot of time with developers
and they bring me their code that they've
downloaded off of the internet and say,
"I look at this and this looks so simple,
but when I try to do it myself,
it doesn't seem quite that simple."
The API that we use behind that
that makes drawing work is Quartz.
And I've already said
Quartz several times.
Behind that is Core Graphics
or the same thing as that.
So I might say Quartz and
mean Core Graphics and say
Core Graphics and mean Quartz.
It's the marketing term.
And you know it's the marketing term
because it has this beautiful Q graphic.
Programmers don't make art like that.
Okay, so when the developers bring me
their code and show it to me,
oftentimes they've downloaded
something like this,
where it's a really simple
example where we do color fill.
And what you see is someone says
override the draw rect method on
your custom implementation of view.
Set red or whatever color to be your fill
color and then call this UI Rect Fill.
Now of course this works and that's
exactly how I got the screenshot
to show to you on screen here.
But who wants to write code
when you could click one
button in Interface Builder,
right?
How many of you on your very first
iPhone project changed the color of
your flashlight from white to red?
We all did that, right?
So this works but it's not a great
example of using Quartz because one,
it's inefficient and two,
there's much better ways to do
that with Interface Builder.
So let's talk about an example
that actually requires that we
dive down into the Quartz API.
So we're going to build this
beautiful gray gradient.
Start with white on the bottom
and fade into this little bit
of a darker gray at the top.
And here's the code.
It's five lines of code.
Deceptively simple, right?
It's really easy to use once you
get your head wrapped around it.
But you might notice that there's some
parentheses instead of square brackets.
And so it is a CAPI,
but I don't want you to panic.
It's really straightforward to
use once you get to know it.
So it's just objects,
and instead of the object being
on the left-hand side with a
square bracket in front of it,
you have the thing you want done,
and then you pass in the object
and then the arguments for it.
So it's very straightforward once
you get your head wrapped around it,
and that's what we'll do
in the next little while.
But UIKit also covers a big
chunk of the Core Graphics API so
that you don't ever really have
to think in terms of the CAPI.
So let's go through the
code one line at a time.
Thank you.
The first thing we want to do is
grab the graphics context from the
UI Graphics Get Current Context method.
Then we create the gradient.
Now I'm not showing you how
to create the gradient yet,
but we will see that in
just a couple of slides.
I wanted to put it behind a method
because it's important that we cache
these objects that Core Graphics
uses so that we can reuse them again
and again because when we do that,
that allows Quartz to take advantage
of a lot of caching that it does on
the back end bookkeeping for what
the gradient looks like and so forth.
Then we specify the start and end
point and in this case we're going
to draw a linear gradient so we just
set a beginning point and an end
point and then we're going to have
that gradient build across that line.
And then it's one function call.
CG context, draw linear gradient.
The first argument is the object
that you want to act on and then the
remainder of the arguments are just
the parameters that you're passing
into essentially that method call.
I told you it was easy.
Do you believe me?
Okay, so building a gradient.
The first thing we want to
do is set up the colors.
So these are the individual colors,
the white color, the medium gray,
and then the little bit darker gray.
Then we set up the color stops and
these are the locations along that
line where the color is going to reach
the particular color that we specified.
We're going to grab the device
gray color space because in this
case we're drawing a gray gradient.
Then we create the gradient.
Now we're done.
We've created our gradient
and we can use it to draw.
We do a little bit of memory
cleanup there by just releasing
that color space that we created.
So now we've seen a real example
of something that we actually need
to use the Core Graphics API for.
So let's take a step back and take a
look at the basics and walk through how
drawing works and look at the drawing
model so that when it comes time for
you to draw you'll understand how to
get what you want onto the screen.
So if you've been to many of our
talks that have talked about any
sort of graphics context inside iOS,
you know that the top left
hand side is the origin.
X is going to the right and
Y positive is going down.
It's a geometric system in which
you describe what you want drawn.
So you can make statements like,
"I'd like to draw a circle," or "I'd
like to draw a triangle," or a square,
or something even more interesting
like this double-headed triangle,
or a double-headed arrow.
or even really interesting
stuff like this.
So all of these are just individual
things called paths that have been
drawn using particular colors and
you end up with something really
beautiful that looks like that.
I don't even know what that data
represents but it looks cool.
Or you can take the closing data
that we're going to download off
the internet and come up with
a graphic that looks like this.
So to talk about what points are,
points are the individual sort
of the atomic bit of how you
describe what you want drawn.
They're abstract.
They're a place in the space
that you're going to draw in.
There's no concept of
resolution on a point.
So Quartz doesn't think or it
doesn't present to you an API that
thinks in terms of dots per inch.
An important point to keep in mind
is a point is at the intersection
of two pieces of your number line,
your X and your Y, just like you learned
in your geometry class.
On the flip side though, of course,
pixels are concrete.
They're physical.
They're either there
and on or they're off.
And if they're on,
they have one color value.
They can't have multiple color values.
And so what Core Graphics does
for us is it does the translation
between those two things.
So we describe in a very abstract way,
we say, "Hey, I would like to have a
line width of two points,
and I would like to have the
first point be here and the second
point I want to make a line to."
And that's what we end up with.
On the left-hand side,
we see we're filling eight points
because our line is two points wide
and it goes across four points.
But if we were to push that
to a retina display where one
point is equal to two pixels,
we would cover all 32 of those pixels.
But it's really important that
instead of thinking in terms of
pixels that we think geometrically.
A 10 point system font
is the right point size,
not 10 pixels.
44 by 44 points is how big you
should make your touch areas.
When the iPhone 4 came out and
we started talking about retina
display we really stressed this.
If you made a touch point that
was 22 pixels by 22 pixels,
or 44 pixels by 44 pixels,
people wouldn't be able to tap it.
It would be really hard
to get their finger on it.
And then of course all of
the devices that we shipped,
iPhones, iPod touches and so forth
are all 320 by 480 points.
So we've talked a little
bit about context and what
we're doing with the context.
Let's take a step back and talk
about what we do with the context
or how a context is put together.
It has a list of properties and then
those properties are used at draw time
to figure out what pixels need to be
filled and how they should be filled.
One piece of those, of that property,
properties is called a path.
And so here we're
creating a rectangle path.
So we're asking the context,
please add a rectangle to
your state that's a path.
And so that would build this path.
Now remember it's abstract,
that's why it's got dots around it.
Then I can set the fill
color to some blue color.
And it's kind of,
you can think about it like
you're telling your kid what
color crayon to pick up,
and then when you ask
the context to draw,
it's going to fill with that crayon
that you asked it to pick up.
So here we have our rectangle
that's filled with that blue color.
It starts at zero, zero,
and it's 400 points by 400 points.
I could also with the UIKit cover
API that sits over Core Graphics just
call UIColor blue color set fill.
Now that blue color becomes the
fill color and then I can call the
UI graphics function UIRECT fill with
the CG RECT and it would fill that RECT.
And again it does exactly the same
thing but this is using perhaps a
more convenient or more familiar API.
Another piece of the context,
or a bit of the
information in the context,
is called the Current Transform Matrix,
also called the CTM.
This is the definition of user space.
It's what defines where points lie,
how big they are, how far apart they are,
and so forth.
I can do things like translate that
CTM and then reuse the path again and
draw it again and it will draw it in
what looks like a different location.
So here I'm translating the CTM in the
X direction by a positive 100 points.
So it moved my square from 00 to 100,
100 but the rectangle that
I drew still started at 00.
Context lives in what's called a stack,
a graphic state stack,
and I can push copies of it onto a stack,
make changes,
and then when I pop that copy off,
all those changes that
I made are discarded.
It's very convenient and it
becomes very important when
we take a look at something,
some of the code that we
use to draw the stock graph.
So the first thing we do is call
saveGstate and that pushes a copy
of the context onto the stack.
Then we do some translation,
translate 100 to the right or left or
however other we wanted to translate it.
And then all the drawing that we
do from that point forward lives
in that translated user space.
So we've changed the definition of what a
point is and where they lie and so forth.
And so all the drawing that
we do from that point forward
is affected by those changes.
Then when we call restore G state,
all of our changes are thrown away
and we're back to the context that
we had before we called save G state.
So really important point about context.
You can't call us.
We have to call you.
I see code like this a lot
trying to help people understand
why their drawing doesn't work.
They have some event processing code,
the user's tapping on something
and they want it to change
from red to green or whatever.
In their event processing
code they're trying to draw.
So they call UI Graphics
Get Current Context inside their
tap gesture recognizer code.
Well of course it's not going
to work there and the reason
is that there's no context.
It is really important that
when you have user interaction
that you're updating state.
So in this method,
instead of trying to draw,
what you want to do is update your state,
make whatever state changes
happen because the user
tapped or panned or whatever,
and then tell the view that
it needs to display itself.
Calling this method
is really inexpensive.
It just flips a single bit on the view
and marks it that it needs to be redrawn.
So you can call it as often as you want.
Now the beauty of this is you can
mark a whole lot of views needing
to be displayed or the same view
needing to be displayed many times
and you won't actually trigger
any drawing until it's time.
And we keep track of that inside UIKit.
And when it's time to draw,
we'll set up a context and invoke
your view's drawRect method.
Inside drawRect,
we have done all the work to
set up a context and we've set
that to be the active context.
So when drawRect happens,
you're able to draw.
So when you call
UIGraphics.getContext here,
of course, there's going to be a context
because we set it up for you.
Now of course it wouldn't be a great
rule if it didn't have an exception.
And we understand that there are cases
where you're going to want to draw
when something interesting happens.
And so what you can do is call
UIGraphicsBeginImageContextWithOptions.
And that does all the heavy
lifting to put together a context
and make it the active context.
Then when we do things like
use UIKit drawing methods like
UIImagesDrawInRect method,
it has a current context so
when it draws it's going to
go into that current context.
Then I can ask the current context, hey,
give me the image.
Now I have my scaled image,
which is what I'm doing in this method.
[Transcript missing]
So if you've spent any time in the
API documentation for Core Graphics,
you've probably seen the
CG bitmap context create.
Or if you've spent any time
searching on the internet for
how to draw in the background,
you've probably encountered this.
Now it's really feature rich.
There's a lot of things you can
do to create a CG bitmap context.
On the flip side,
you can use the really simple UI graphics
begin image context with options and
all you have to do is pass in the size,
how big do you want the context to be,
what opacity,
do you want it to have opacity or not,
is it completely opaque,
and then you set the scale.
And you can even pass in zero
there and it will set the scale
appropriate for whatever piece
of hardware you're running on.
So two different approaches.
The way you decide which one you want
to choose is based on whether or not
you have some custom algorithm that
needs access to the backing data,
to the actual bits that make up the
bitmap that you're going to build.
That would be a case where you'd want
to use your own bitmap context that
you build with CG bitmap context.
In virtually every other case
you're going to want to use the
UI Graphics Begin Image Context.
We make sure that that's optimized for
displaying on the screen and then we
have other functions that will pull
a ping file or a JPEG out of there.
So if you want to email it
or whatever you can do that.
So that's a wrap up,
or that's the extent of the basics.
The context is a geometric space
in which you're going to draw.
You should think geometrically.
Core Graphics translates that
geometric description into some pixels.
And the great thing is we
never have to worry about
peaking and poking video memory.
Hooray for that.
The current transform matrix
defines how points live,
how they relate to each other,
what the current space is.
And then last and most important about
this initial section is you cannot just
arbitrarily start drawing anywhere.
You have to have an active context.
So the primitive of how you draw
things in Core Graphics is a path.
And a path is made up
of one of four pieces:
a point, a line, an arc, or a curve.
You create a path with UI Bezier Path,
call the class method Bezier Path,
that's going to return an
auto-released object to you.
Then you create a CG point
and you tell it move to point.
Anytime you call move to point that's
going to create or begin a new path,
but that point is kind of
lonely and he needs a friend,
so we're going to set up another
point and call add line to point.
So now I've built this geometric
abstraction which is the line
that goes from the initial
point to the second point.
When I set the line width to 1
and then ask that path to stroke,
it's going to draw into
the current context,
it's going to be one point wide,
and it's going to go across
those three points long.
Now, this is the abstract geometric
description for what would happen.
However,
we know that pixels are not abstract,
they're hardware,
and hardware is not nearly
as malleable as software is,
right?
On a high retina or a high
DPI display when we drew that,
it would look great because there's
twice as many pixels as there are points.
[Transcript missing]
One other piece of information where you
have to think about that kind of stuff.
So here we have a point or a line
that's going between these two points.
And we've set its width to be one wide.
If we want a one point wide line
to align exactly with pixels,
And not overdraw like this.
What we need to do is offset
its point value by .5.
So that's any time that we
have an odd width on our,
on the line width,
any time you have an odd value there,
you're going to want to push the
line .5 one way or the other,
right or left, or up or down.
But of course there are many,
many cases where it doesn't
matter how hard you work,
you're never going to get the thing you
have described to line up with pixels.
So,
I'm going to get back on my soapbox now
and tell you to think geometrically.
Unless in those rare cases where
you need to be pixel perfect.
Alright,
so enough about points and lines.
The next piece is arcs,
and arcs are exactly what you
learned about in geometry.
You have a center point,
you have some angle, and a radius,
and that defines where the arc lies.
You also have two types of curves.
The one that's illustrated
here is called a Bezier curve.
It has two endpoints.
So you call move to point to
begin the curve and then you call
this add curve to point control
point one and control point two.
And those two control points
define the tangent of the
curve at the two endpoints.
So as you draw these paths,
eventually you will probably want
to close them so that they are a
complete geometric package that you
can then do interesting things with.
So the way you do that,
you create a path,
you call move to point,
then you call add line to point,
you might draw add line to point again.
Then you'd call closed path.
Now we have a complete geometric path
that we can then pass around and we can
maybe be able to fill with that or we
could use it to clip with like we saw
with the rounded rectangles and so forth.
Other interesting paths.
Here I'm creating an arc that goes
all the way around a circle and
then I call fill and it gets filled.
Now again,
Core Graphics is going to worry
about what pixels get filled.
I just think geometrically.
So another great thing
that we can do with paths.
Once we have a path closed,
we can use it to clip with.
So here's an image and we want to crop it
and we want to put some rounded rectangle
edges on it so it just looks perfect,
beautiful.
To do that,
we specify the rectangle that we
want to pull out of the image,
the cropping rectangle.
Then we create a UI Bezier path
telling it how big the rectangle is,
which corners of that
rectangle we want rounded,
and then what radius we want to
use to round each of those corners.
Then when we add that
path as the clip path,
and the clip path is
another piece of state,
it's another property on the context,
when we add that to the context,
no pixels that fall outside of that
will be affected by any drawing
commands until we remove that clip path.
So when we call image draw
at point or draw in rect,
it will clip that image inside
our rounded rectangle and
we'll end up with this image.
That's a much more efficient
way to approach drawing images
with rounded corners than it is
to use layers rounded corners,
CA layers rounded corners.
Let's go to the demo.
Okay, so again, remember in our demo
what we're going to do,
there's seven steps and they're
outlined here in each of these comments.
We're going to draw the gradient,
we're going to round the corners,
we're going to put the grid,
we're going to put the horizontal grid,
then we're going to
draw that line pattern,
draw the closing data,
and then the volume data,
and then finally the month names.
So let's start, make sure my demo script
is set up properly,
let's start with drawing
the background gradient.
So the code is straightforward.
This is exactly what we
saw on the slide earlier.
We happen to be using a colored gradient
instead of a black and white gradient.
But we grab the context,
we set the start point,
we set the end point,
and then we ask the context
to draw the gradient.
The gradient that we're
using is hidden behind this
collapsed code just above here.
We'll look at it in a second.
We just grab the gradient, pass that off,
and ask the context to draw that.
Just to prove I've got
nothing up my sleeve,
we'll go ahead and look at that code.
And it's the same thing,
but in this case we're using
an RGB color space because we
want to have a blue gradient.
And so we're setting up those colors
with all three of their color components.
We have four color stops,
and that's how we get that sort
of hard break in the middle.
So we set up those four color stops and
that's what makes that look like that.
It happens to also be a
universal application.
I wanted it to run in the iPhone,
so let's do that.
So now we have our blue gradient,
but we're missing the rounded corners.
So just like again we saw on the slides,
we take a rectangle,
we tell it which corners
we want to be rounded,
we tell it the radius to round,
and then we add that to be the clip path.
Now none of the drawing that we
do is going to fall outside of
that path that we just set up.
So now we have our nice rounded corners.
The next step of course is
to draw our vertical grid.
And I drew this into a ping file so
that we could talk about it for a
second because there's some detail
here that I don't want to look at
in code because it's too much code.
So if we notice here we have
the three vertical lines that
represent each of the months in
the data that we're going to draw.
So the one on the far left hand side,
the next one, and the next one.
So each of those represent a month.
On the far right hand side
we have sort of the end cap.
That marks the area in which to the
right we're going to have labels
for each of the prices that we have.
On the bottom we have two horizontal
lines that contain where our
volume data is going to be.
So remember we talked
about translating the CTM.
So what we're going to do is set up
a path that's going to represent each
of these lines and then we're going
to translate the CTM and reuse that
path and draw the same exact lines.
So we're going to do that path four times
in a row by just translating the CTM.
So let's go make that happen.
So the first step is
just to set the color,
and I sampled this color
off of a screenshot.
You'd probably have an artist
tell you what color to put there.
And then I tell it to set
itself as the stroke color.
Next,
I'm creating the line that I'm going
to use to draw the vertical lines.
And remember,
we're just going to use one path.
And this path, since we're reusing it,
it allows Core Graphics again to
take advantage of all the caching
and bookkeeping that it does to
make this path draw the first time.
The next step is to do a
little bit of bookkeeping.
And I have, again, all of this code is
available in the demo.
And this is just doing some math
based on the data set that we have.
The trading day line spacing.
Remember that in every trading month
there's somewhere between 19 and 24
trading days per month and we want
the lines for each of our months
to fall in the appropriate spot.
And so that trading space per day tells
us how much space we have in each day.
Then we have another calculation that
we use to calculate how many trading
days we're in a particular month.
And so that's what we're using that for.
The next step is to grab the
graphics context and save the state.
And again we're saving the state
because we're going to use Translate
and we want to be able to get
back to the current context.
So now for each of our sorted months,
so in our case here March, April,
and May, we're going to go through,
figure out how many trading days
were in that month in our data set,
and use that to calculate how
far to the right we want to
move before we draw the line.
Excuse me, then we draw our line once,
we move over the appropriate amount,
we draw the line again,
and we draw the line again.
So that's the first
three lines for March,
April, and May.
Does it make sense?
Now we've translated the CTM so we
want to make sure to restore it.
So now we're back to the
context that we started in.
So the next step is going
to be to draw that end cap,
the last line on the right hand side.
So we're going to move
all the way to the right,
to the end of the data set that we
have and draw that line one more time.
So now that we have all
of our vertical lines,
it's time to draw the box that we're
going to put the volume data into.
And that's basically,
the approach to that is exactly the same.
We're going to create one
path that's going to go across
the entire set that we want.
We're going to draw that and then we're
going to translate in the Y direction
this time and draw it one more time.
And there we have our grid.
So this is the place in which
we're going to draw the remaining
pieces of our stock graph.
So now that we have the grid,
the next step is to go and
draw in the vertical grid.
Sorry, I just drew the vertical grid,
the horizontal grid.
Getting ahead of myself.
So the horizontal grid is going to
be each of those dotted lines that
shows us where the stock price is.
And the approach to that is
going to be very similar,
so I'm not going to spend as much
time going through that code.
In my case, I chose to draw five lines.
You might need to draw seven or
two or whatever for your data set,
but in my case I chose
to draw five lines.
Again,
they start on the left and they go all
the way to the right of that rectangle
that we want to draw the data in.
Now one interesting piece here
that we didn't cover in the
slides is this dash pattern.
So this is specifying one point on,
one point off, and set that as the dash
pattern for the line.
So anytime that this line is drawn,
it's going to have one
point on and one point off.
So pretty close.
Now we have the lines that we need,
but they're not clipped to our data,
right?
And it's really important that it
gets clipped to the data because
that's what gives it that beautiful
detail of one pattern on the top
and a different pattern on the top.
I mean,
one on the bottom and one on the top.
So let's look at how we do that.
And you can probably guess that what
we need to do is save the context
state and get a clipping path.
Now the clipping path that
we're drawing here though is I'm
hiding it behind this method,
top clip path from data in rect.
The way I created that was took the path
that I create for all of my closing data
where the stock value closed on each day.
That creates one path.
Then I start on the right hand
side at the end of that data set.
I go up to the top of my rectangle.
I go all the way back to the left
down to the first data point in my
data set and then close the path.
That strangely shaped path
then becomes my clipping path.
So any drawing that happens that's
outside of that area is going to be
clipped and not shown on the screen.
So now when I draw,
I get my horizontal lines,
they're drawn in,
and you can see that they're clipped.
But we still can't see
where the data lies.
So let's go draw that nice
line pattern underneath.
And the approach here is going to be
very similar to what we've done already.
We're going to draw some lines,
translate the context,
draw some lines again.
Oops,
very important point I forgot to do.
I told you guys never to forget to
do that and then I forgot to do it.
Since I added that clipping
path to my horizontal grid and
I forgot to restore the context,
now the top clipping path is set up.
And if I had proceeded with writing
code and clipped to the bottom,
we would see no new drawing
and then I would have panicked
because I would have not been
able to see what was going on.
So let's go add that down here.
Now we're back in a consistent state.
So actually a great learning opportunity.
If you're drawing stuff and
you're setting up clipping
paths and you see zero,
nothing on the screen,
it's probably because you've
done something weird with your
clipping path and you're not
allowing anything to be drawn.
And a great debugging tip,
what I do when I'm in that situation
is I take that path that I'm using
as the clip path and I draw it.
Set my line width to be five,
set the color to be black,
and just draw that path.
And then at least I can see what
in the world it's clipping to.
So, debugging tips.
Alright, draw pattern under closing path.
So the first thing we want to do is grab
the context and then create our path.
And in this case we're setting
the line width to be one.
Whenever we have an odd width we
want to make sure that we offset .5.
If we wanted to fall right on a
point boundary we want to offset by
.5 so that's what we're doing here.
Then the next piece is
to grab this alpha step.
So we want to start with our
alpha set to .8 and we want it to
fade down to our alpha being .2.
So we start at .8 and
we come up with a step.
How much should we decrement the
alpha value essentially on each step?
And that's the math to do that.
Next we want to save the graphic state,
create our line,
figure out how far we want to translate
the CTM in the Y direction each time,
and then update the stroke color
with every time changing the alpha
value to be a little bit more clear,
a little bit more clear, and so forth.
And now if I draw this,
you can probably guess this too,
it would draw over the entire data rect,
which is not what we want.
We only want it to fall below.
So let's grab the context and then
in this time we're going to get
the bottom clip path which does
exactly the same thing that the top
clip path does except it's flipped.
So I go to the end of my data set,
I go down to the corner,
back all the way to the left,
and then up to the beginning of my data
set and clip to inside of that path.
So, this method is deceptively
simple looking,
right?
This is just grabbing the path for our
closing data and then setting the stroke
color to white and then drawing it.
So barring the line pattern
underneath that I've totally
messed up and can't make work,
I apologize, the sample code works.
So now we see our
closing data showing up.
The next step is to draw the
volume data across the bottom.
One thing I wanted to show though before
we move on to drawing the volume data.
So here's the method that's going
to create that path for the data.
Now it looks like a lot of code but
really all it's doing is scaling,
taking all of my closing data
and scaling it to fit within that
rectangle that I have to draw it in.
So it's really just a whole bunch of
different math to scale it properly
and then it's calling move to point,
line to point, line to point,
line to point, line to point for each
one of those things.
So it really is pretty simple.
It's just a bit of math to
make it all fit together.
So the first thing we want to
do on drawing the volume data,
now remember for every trading day we're
going to have some volume amount so we
want to move along by that trading day
spacing that we saw earlier and we want
to draw a line from the maximum value
down to the bottom of our rectangle.
So this is doing all the math to set
us up to be able to do that and then
we set white to be the stroke color.
The next step is to iterate
through all of that data and then
create a new path for each one of
these lines that we want to draw.
Now in this case we can't use the
translate trick here to reuse the
path again and again because each of
those paths are a different height.
So we're going to create a path,
set its two endpoints,
and then draw the path
and then release the path.
And now we see the volume data.
So that's it for this piece.
The next thing is to go back
and talk about drawing text.
So because I explained
to you how to debug it,
it went south on stage.
During my practice things I never told
anybody about how to debug that problem.
So it's the demo monkey.
I forgot to sacrifice
a goat or something.
Okay, so demo wrap up.
So we learned how to draw these lines.
We learned how to apply a clipping
path with some group of data.
And we also talked about
how to get crisp lines.
Remember whenever you have an odd width,
if you want it to be crisp,
you need to move it 0.5
one way or the other.
So text drawing, there's two ways that
you can approach that.
In UIKit there's a bunch of extensions
to the NSString class that allow you to
find out interesting information like how
should I lay this text out and so forth,
and then draw the text.
But if you have serious text needs,
you need to look at Core Text.
It's a full featured layout engine,
there's tons and tons of great features,
and it will draw paragraphs and a
bunch of different fonts and so forth,
it's really cool.
We're not gonna talk about Core Text,
we're gonna talk about
the UIKit approach.
So you can do things like
give me the size with font.
So you pass in the font and
the NSString will return to
you a size that it will fit in.
Knowing that size you can then use
that information to lay that text out.
If you have multi-line text,
you can tell it a rectangle that
you want it to draw in and it will
return to you a size in which it
thinks it can fit all of that text.
Once you know that,
you can calculate this point and
tell it to draw at that point.
And the same thing for
a bigger group of text.
Once you know the information,
you would calculate your text
recs and then have it draw.
So again, I just want to drive
this home one more time.
You cannot draw strings in your
tap gesture recognizer code.
You have to have a context,
and in the event processing case,
you don't have a context yet.
Instead, tell it you need to display.
If you want to know more about Core Text,
last year we had this great talk called
Advanced Text Handling for iPhone OS.
There's some sample code
that will actually draw the
Constitution and a bunch of other
stuff in great interesting fonts.
So go grab that at ADC on iTunes.
Okay, now we've seen how to draw
the text across the bottom,
but of course we also want
some nice shadows there.
Shadow state is another piece
of information on the context.
So we set that up by setting up a shadow,
telling it its offset, color,
and blur radius.
But it's really important
that we use this GState call
because once we set the shadow,
all drawing from that point
forward will use that same shadow.
So we want to set it,
draw our shadowed stuff,
and then call restore context.
so that we go back to non-shadow drawing.
So this is how we would set up some
text that we want to draw with a shadow.
We set our shadow height to two,
we're going to set our
shadow color to dark gray,
or actually in this case because it's
hard to see dark gray I set it to orange.
I asked it to draw and then
it shows up with a shadow.
And then I call restoreGState and
any further drawing that happens
isn't going to have that shadow.
So I want to take a step back and
talk about this painter's algorithm
which is the way that Quartz draws.
And it's like when you paint your house.
When you paint with red color
and you decide you don't like
red and you paint with blue,
the color that you see is blue.
Quartz uses that same approach.
Now of course it takes into account alpha
and it will do blending and so forth,
but the general idea is that whatever
the last color to go down is what wins.
So if you were to draw these three
circles with three different colors,
it would look like this.
And since the red was the
last thing to be drawn,
that's the thing that you see on top.
In the shadow case,
and this is something that a
lot of people get wrong and
they don't know how to do it,
which is why I wanted to
make sure and put it in here.
Our sample won't actually
run into this problem,
but it's a really common thing.
We set the shadow,
we draw those three circles,
and the shadows look nothing like
what we wanted them to look like.
The shadows overlay.
So remember the shadow state
sort of lives with the context,
and any drawing that you tell
the context to do is going
to have that shadow applied.
So since these three shapes
were drawn separately,
they each get their own shadow,
so those shadows overlay.
So if that's not the
effect that you want,
if you want all of them to be together
and to end up drawing with one shadow,
you would use this thing
called a transparency layer.
It's sort of like a grouping thing.
It says take some interesting pieces of
the context state like shadows and only
apply them after all the drawing is done.
Okay, so let's go back to the
demo machine one more time,
or real quick, to look at text drawing.
So we want our month
names to be localized.
And I don't have time to go into all
the detail about how localization works.
Again, we've had a lot of
great talks about that.
But you can't just assume January,
February, March.
Some calendars have 13 months,
some have 13 some years,
and 12 others months.
It's really complicated.
Who wants to keep all
that stuff in their head?
We've written it down into
something called NS Calendar.
Use it.
And that's what this code does.
So go take a look at the sample
code and then some old WWDC stuff.
So we do that setup stuff.
And then remember that we
want each of these month names
to fall under these lines.
So we have one line
for each of our month.
So we want those names to
fall in those locations.
So we're using our daily trading
space calculation again to
find out how far over March,
April, and May should fall.
So we do those calculations.
We figure out how wide the month is,
what the name of the month is,
how wide it is, then we lay it out.
"And now we have our text
labels across the bottom,
but there's no shadows yet.
So let's go do that."
We're going to do that right here
after we save our graphic state.
And I don't have an additional graphic
state saved here so I don't have to add
an additional restore at the bottom.
So now when I run,
I have the nice shadows
at the bottom of my text.
So we're almost there.
And actually, we are done with what
I showed you in the agenda,
but I have one extra piece
because we have six and a half
minutes left that I want to show
you that I think is really fun.
So let's go back over to slides.
So we're almost there.
Images.
UIKit can draw images.
And I want you to feel
free to draw images,
but UI Image View is much more efficient
than drawing your own images this way.
So if you have images and you want
to put the full image on screen,
use a UI Image View.
If you must draw an image,
you can use Draw at
Point and Draw in Rect.
Now in the sample I spilled this
earlier and I showed the code,
I didn't want to, so I want you guys to
download it and play with it.
There's a method in there that
will pull this beach thing and
draw it inside a clipping path.
So feel free to go after
it and mess with that.
Earlier today there was
Understanding UI Kit Rendering,
which talks in depth about why using
this approach is less efficient
than using a UI Image View.
Okay, so the last piece,
I love this stuff.
It's sort of ugly, but I love it.
It's ugly because I drew it.
If I had an artist, it would be awesome.
So a pattern is a single image that's
drawn repeatedly to fill some space.
So in this case,
I used Core Graphics to draw this
really simple 48 by 48 image.
And it's just a radial gradient
with two lines across the corner.
And then I call UIColor
Color with Pattern,
and that pattern image becomes
then sort of a fill color that
I can just fill this thing with.
And so I set the background
color to be that pattern.
and that's how I ended
up with the background.
But don't be afraid to
do this in Draw Rect.
I know earlier I sort of said, "Look,
if you can set the background color,
set the background color." But you
can also use patterns in Draw Rect and
they can be really efficient as well.
So as homework,
in addition to putting the beach
picture behind your stock graph,
I also want you to take that
48 by 48 pattern and use that
to stroke the stock path.
It looks pretty,
I don't know if cool is the right word,
but it looks interesting.
Okay, so I want to show you a
demo of using patterns,
and I'm not sure how well it's
going to work out because it's
supposed to show up in the bottom,
but we'll give it a shot.
Okay,
so the pattern stuff is going to work.
It's going to be magical, you'll love it.
Okay, so I grab the image,
I set it to be the color,
and then I'm getting
that bottom clip path,
which is again my stock data and
down and right and left or whatever,
and then I take that path and
I fill it with my pattern color.
So it's kind of ugly,
but it's still pretty cool, right?
I took this 48 by 48 image
that I created with Quartz and
I stuck it in the background.
Now, or I stuck it inside this
sort of really cool path.
Now, observant,
if you're really observant,
you'll notice that that pattern
is clipping half of our path.
So remember how I talked to you how a
path is going to draw half of its stroke
on the top and half on the bottom or
half to the right or half to the left?
Since we drew this pattern
after we drew our path,
we're going to draw half of its stroke
on the top and half on the bottom.
So if we want to fix that,
we take advantage of our knowledge
of the painter's algorithm and we
go back down here to draw rect.
And we grab the line that's drawing that
and we put that above our closing data.
And now since the
pattern gets drawn first,
we see the full width of our path.
So that's the end of the demo.
Whoever sacrificed the goat,
thank you very much.
So now when you download the
sample code you'll be able to draw
this and that's the full thing.
So in summary,
you can draw that with Quartz and
I cannot wait to see the amazingly
cool stuff that you guys go and
do with this knowledge when you
get out there after the beer bash.
So draw in context.
You have to have a context.
You can't do it without a
context and think geometrically.
So finally, if you have any questions,
feel free to send me an email.
There's documentation.
Please say hi.